SHARE OF THE WEEK: Marks & Spencer rejoining FTSE 100 By City & Finance Reporter Updated: 08:16, 16 September 2023 e-mail View comments Marks & Spencer returns to the FTSE 100 next week after a four-year absence. It is the latest sign that the High Street favourite has got its mojo back. Shares in M&S will rejoin the blue chip index on Monday having gained nearly 80 per cent this year, valuing it at £4.3billion. The return to the Footsie – after it was relegated for the first time ever in September 2019 – comes amid a long-awaited recovery under chairman Archie Norman. M&S's revival is in sharp contrast to the troubles at John Lewis, which this week racked up half-year losses of £59m and warned its own turnaround will take two years longer than anticipated. RELATED ARTICLES Previous 1 Next MAGGIE PAGANO: Marks & Spencer puts John Lewis in the shade M&S shares are up 80% this year but can they keep rising? Marks & Spencer in tie-up with Estee Lauder ahead of return... Can you trust Nectar and Clubcard Prices? Discounts may not... Share this article Share HOW THIS IS MONEY CAN HELP How to choose the best (and cheapest) stocks and shares Isa and the right DIY investing account John Lewis chairman Dame Sharon White said her turnaround plan, which was launched in 2020, will not be complete until 2027-28. M&S co-chief executives Stuart Machin and Katie Bickerstaffe outlined their blueprint to overhaul the company in May last year as they built on the progress of former boss Steve Rowe. Their plans received a major boost last month when the company published an unscheduled trading update that showed an 11 per cent jump in food sales and more than 6 per cent increase at its clothing and home division. That led M&S to raise its profits forecasts – triggering a flurry of upgrades from City analysts. M&S was one of the founding members of the FTSE 100 in 1984 – a century after the company was set up by Michael Marks and Thomas Spencer in Leeds. DIY INVESTING PLATFORMS Stocks & shares Isa Stocks & shares Isa Easy investing Capital at risk. Isa rules & T&Cs apply. Investment ideas Free fund dealing Free fund dealing 0.45% account fee capped for shares Flat-fee investing No fees £9.99 monthly fee One free £5.99 trade per month Social investing Social investing Share investing 30+ million global community Model portfolios Investment account Free fund dealing Free financial coaching Affiliate links: If you take out a product This is Money may earn a commission. This does not affect our editorial independence. > Compare the best investing platform for you Share or comment on this article: SHARE OF THE WEEK: Marks & Spencer rejoining FTSE 100 e-mail Add comment Some links in this article may be affiliate links. If you click on them we may earn a small commission. That helps us fund This Is Money, and keep it free to use. We do not write articles to promote products. We do not allow any commercial relationship to affect our editorial independence. Comments 0 Share what you think No comments have so far been submitted. Why not be the first to send us your thoughts, or debate this issue live on our message boards. Add your comment Enter your comment By posting your comment you agree to our house rules . Submit Comment Clear Close Do you want to automatically post your MailOnline comments to your Facebook Timeline? Your comment will be posted to MailOnline as usual. No Yes Close Do you want to automatically post your MailOnline comments to your Facebook Timeline? Your comment will be posted to MailOnline as usual We will automatically post your comment and a link to the news story to your Facebook timeline at the same time it is posted on MailOnline. To do this we will link your MailOnline account with your Facebook account. We’ll ask you to confirm this for your first post to Facebook. You can choose on each post whether you would like it to be posted to Facebook. Your details from Facebook will be used to provide you with tailored content, marketing and ads in line with our Privacy Policy . More top stories